Welcome back to that course in our programming.
In today's tutorial we will learn how to address or extract components of a list.
All right so let's dive straight into it.
There are three ways to extract components of a list.
The first way is through just ordinary square brackets.
This will always return a list.
Second way is through double square brackets.
This will always or will return the actual object within the component and the third way is the dollar
sign.
So this is the same as the double square brackets.
But perdere the are you going to say it's pretty.
Here I just want an always.
OK so let's have a go list are all one.
So just print a list and we see that we have three elements or three components in our list.
Let's start by trying to address this first component.
Let's try all three methods.
So list underscore are all one square brackets one.
Run that as you can see what we call it is it is still a list.
We've still got an A list which has one component machine and it's that vector with one character.
Our old one.
So now if we try the second method list Aurel one and then double brackets one.
What we will get is now is different.
You can see that here we had this name of the component here we don't.
And that's because this is now a vector it's no longer a list and if we try the first met a third method
list dollar sign machine you're on that.
You can see that it's same output as here.
All right let's try the second component but the stamp will do a bit more investigation.
So let's go list are all one second component and we run that.
So here we've got dollar signs that's meaning that's the name of this component and this is the component
.
This is the vector here.
So what do I do.
First thing I want to show is if I make this bigger write like that.
So now that this whole vector doesn't fit here.
If I run this now this should kind of explain what this one means right.
This one and then this three is just like if you had a vector if you just output a vector and doesn't
fit on your screen.
That's where the one comes from that's where the threat comes from and helps you understand.
OK this is the first cell in the second element Elger this newline.
So there's a third element right so don't get confused by this one over here it's just there just because
something didn't fit on the screen as it would be when you print out a normal vector.
So going back to our concept here regardless that's.
That's the name of this component of this list.
And how do I know that this is a list.
Well it's very simple.
Let's just check it out.
Type off and let's copy this in here.
So let's just prove that this is indeed a list.
As you can see it is a list.
All right let's check in on list.
R l 1 double square brackets.
I now put two in here.
So now we just got this vector by itself.
What do you think we will get if we check type of here.
What do you think will get.
That's right we got double because this is a vector of doubles so completely it has nothing to do with
the list anymore.
You can take this value assign it to letter to letter Zed and or letter A and it'll be a completely
separate vector.
We've extracted the element out of the list whereas here in this case it's still a list.
Just a smaller list.
And now let's try out the final version.
R l one.
And here we're going to say dollar sign stats.
So if you run that here you can see that we've got Once again the stats and let's see what that will
look like.
If we look at the type of.
Once again it's double.
So indeed these two approaches return the identical result.
Just this one is a bit more convenient because we actually can specify the name of the component.
And as you can imagine if you have lots and lots of components then this way you can easier or it's
a simpler way of addressing them rather than looking through a list and trying to remember where each
component is sitting.
All right so I'm going to question now.
Can you solve this mini challenge.
How would you access the third.
Wait for it.
Element of the vector.
So the maximum utilization.
How would you access that.
So you know list let's print out a list list are all one in a list.
We've got three components machines.
That's a low threshold.
How would you access this value.
This third element of the component which is the vector stat's in our list.
How would you do it.
All right so you propose a video and give it a go yourself.
Otherwise I'm going to show you the answer right now.
So the answer here is a list Aurel one.
And then you'd say OK how do I get to this vector by itself.
Not in list.
How do I get just the vector.
Well this way right.
So either this way or this way and then you'd say two and then you'd say three.
Right because you want.
So let's get rid of that for a second.
That's the vector and then on top of that we want to get to the third value.
So there we go.
That's how you do it.
And of course the other approach is to replace the double brackets to move dollar sign stats.
You get the same result.
There go as you can imagine with the single brackets you can really do that because with single brackets
you'll still have a list and the end you would still need to access the element.
All right so there we go.
And we've got one more left to do so we've done the first component.
The second component I'll leave it up to you to practice with the third component so just go ahead and
do this same approach or this approach where you access it this way and you access it this way.
And then you extract it this way as well.
And just that'll do some additional practice and really cement in what we learned today and that's all
for this tutorial.
I look forward to seeing the next one.
Until then happy coding